Research data scientist with a background in computer vision and astronomical image processing. I received a PhD from the University of Liege, Belgium, where I worked on the development of novel computer vision algorithms for the task of extrasolar planets detection, pioneering the application of deep learning to the field of astronomical high-contrast imaging. This was possible by re-framing a signal detection problem as a supervised classification task, using deep hybrid recurrent and convolutional networks for training discriminators capable of disentangling the target signal from the surrounding noise.

After my PhD, I joined the [Grenoble Alpes Data Institute](https://data-institute.univ-grenoble-alpes.fr/) (Grenoble, France) as a junior research chair in Data Science for Earth, Space and Environmental sciences. The experience of these past two years allowed me to diversify my research interests and to expand my comfort zone when it comes to carrying out cross- and multi-disciplinary research projects. My work at the Grenoble Alpes Data Institute consisted in interfacing scientific data analysis and machine learning, drawing inspiration from the AI literature to create innovative algorithms for multi-dimensional data processing (e.g. image sequences with temporal, spectral or other additional dimensions). 

My interest in open research makes me spend a great deal of time developing open-source scientific computing [tools](https://github.com/carlgogo/), conducting data [challenges](https://exoplanet-imaging-challenge.github.io/) and spreading the word about open research [practices](https://grenoble-alpes-data-institute.github.io/2018-05-31-grenoble-software-carpentry/).

In one sentence, I am passionate about developing effective solutions at the interface between AI (machine learning), academia and entrepreneurship for tackling humanity's biggest challenges.   

------------

_"If you're not having fun, you're not learning. There's a pleasure in finding things out."_, Richard Feynman.